---
title: Bio
layout: bio
download_bio: images/xdim-bio.pdf
---
Christina Dimitriadis uses photography as a medium to express an autobiographical stance based on human relationships in terms of the concept of identity. Her work has been exhibited internationally, solo shows includes: City of Athens Arts Center, Badisches Landesmuseum Schloss Karlsruhe, Galeria Studio, Warsaw, Citizen’s Art Center, Kanazawa, Galerie Deux, Tokyo and Eigen+Art Gallery, Berlin. Group exhibitions includes the 3rd Biennale of Contemporary Art, Thessaloniki, Istanbul Modern, Museum of Modern Art, Istanbul and Moscow Photo Biennale, Na Solyanke Art Gallery, Moscow, Centre Régional d’Art Contemporain Languedoc Roussilon, Sète,798 SPACE, Beijing, EMST National Museum of Contemporary Art, Athens, Berlinische Galerie, The State Museum for Modern Art, Photography and Architecture, Berlin, Maison Européenne de la Photographie, Paris, 3rd Auckland Triennial, Auckland, among others. She was invited for international Residency programs and scholarships such as C.A.R.K. in Kanazawa College of Art, Kanazawa and AIR Artist-In- Residence, in Krems an der Donau. She collaborated for two projects with Bauhaus Stiftung and IBA Stadtumbau.

She taught photography in contemporary art at New York University, Berlin, UdK, Universität der Künste, Berlin, HGB, Hochschule für Grafik und Buchkunst / Academy of Fine Arts, Leipzig, as well as various workshops, including Kunstuniversität Linz Institut für Bildende Kunst und Kulturwissenschaften and Kanazawa College of Art. She studied at the Parsons School of Design & New School for Social Research, New York. She lives and works in Berlin.